Feat: Add Hugging Face as LLM provider (#8182)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_hub/kong-inc/ai-proxy-advanced/how-to/llm-provider-integration-guides/_huggingface.md

---
nav_title: Hugging Face
title: Set up AI Proxy Advanced with Hugging Face
minimum_version: 3.9.x
---

This guide walks you through setting up the AI Proxy plugin with [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/).

{% include_cached /md/plugins-hub/ai-providers-prereqs-advanced.md snippet='intro' %}

## Prerequisites

{% include_cached /md/plugins-hub/ai-providers-prereqs-advanced.md snippet='service' provider='Hugging Face' %}
* Hugging Face access token with permissions to make calls to the Inference API
* [Text-generation model](https://huggingface.co/models?pipeline_tag=text-generation&sort=trending) from Hugging Face

## Provider configuration

### Set up route and plugin

Create the route:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8001/services/ai-proxy-advanced/routes \
  --data "name=huggingface-chat" \
  --data "paths[]=~/huggingface-chat$"
```

> Enable and configure the AI Proxy Advanced plugin for Anthropic, replacing the `<huggingface_token>` with your own access token and `<huggingface_model>` with the name of the model to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable and configure the AI Proxy Advanced plugin for Hugging Face, replacing the `<huggingface_token>` with your own access token and `<huggingface_model>` with the name of the model to use.
```
